this is now New Year's Eve I'm recording
this on December 31st 2016 so question
came in quote is there an amount of time
that you believe a person can spend
enjoying themselves instead of
participating in some kind of
humanitarian work you know working
towards political goals the stuff that
up in my videos
he says what kind of what percentage of
one's lifetime do you believe is okay to
enjoy without warrant and criticism so
you guys can imagine why he's asking
that if you've been watching my recent
videos I think with activism and
humanitarian work simply put you want to
be in the position of saying I am doing
all that I possibly can all you can may
be very limited
[Music]
I remember when I was living in England
living in England with my wife at the
time just by coincidence these things
come and go in fashions we heard a lot
of this BS we heard a lot of this kind
of prideful boasting from male pickup
artists male I mean really what it is is
on the news on the radio in newspapers
you hear a lot of pop psychology and
there seems to be this very popular
British attitude very popular in the
British Isles that men there's a saying
in England
keep'em keen tree to mean there were all
these bizarre little social theories pop
psychology theories in England about how
men should keep their girlfriends
interested
basically by snubbing them basically by
acting like they're too good for their
own girlfriend and part of that there
were all these theories circulating on
the internet but again this was
discussed on the radio and in newspapers
there was all this kind of crap like men
saying like you should only send your
girlfriend one text message for every
three text messages Seacole she says you
you should only give her you know two
phone calls for every five phone calls
you get for the woman there were all
these kind of bizarre theories about how
to keep your relationship fresh or
loving or meaningful or whatever for for
the man in England basically these men
trying to prove their their better than
their girlfriend I guess basically by
the man not paying too much attention to
the girlfriend and not helping her over
basically not being helpful as bizarre
this debate I mean it's not even debate
it's really just pop psychology and me
and my wife at the time is now my
ex-wife we saw a lot of this and some of
the people we knew face to face talk to
these terms also about basically how
much attention the man is giving the
woman how much attention the woman is
giving the man and even sort of who is
providing what benefits how much the man
helps the woman how much the woman helps
them
and people were really theorizing about
this way so for me sorry if in case you
don't catch the Segway this really is
linked to this question of being asked
how much time can a person spend
enjoying with them themselves as opposed
to how much time can they devote to the
movements how much time can they devote
to humanitarian work etc and I remember
saying to my ex-wife you know to me this
is just totally bizarre because this
whole mentality I see in England which
I'd never seen in America I'd never seen
in Canada is bad maybe it exists in
America candles but I've never seen it
this whole mentality is based on the
idea that your problem is restricting
yourself from helping too much that your
problem is that like by nature you would
spend too much of your time too much of
your money too much of your effort doing
things to help your girlfriend in her
life or your wife in her life and that
you should restrict yourself so that you
seem more commanding or more it's
bizarre it's totally alien to me but I
remember saying we discussed this at
several points I said the reality is the
opposite the reality is even if you do
everything you possibly can do to help
your girlfriend or to help your wife it
will never be enough so you have to
start from that perspective if I'm doing
all I can to help you it's never gonna
be enough but I can say honestly I could
look in your eyes and saying I am doing
all I can right and a meaning in my
relationships with girlfriends or my
wife or what have you I have been in
that position very very often you know I
mean at one point my wife was living in
China I had a job in Thailand so you
know we were traveling back and forth to
see each other and she did need help on
some things including intellectual
things helping her PhD thesis or
something and you can say I could say
honestly enough you know I am doing all
I can now she's a very tough woman Mac's
wife it's not like she was begging for
tons of help but sure it's an issue
comes up
you know whether it's washing the dishes
or helping someone with their PhD thesis
with their research helping them design
a research projects because you know a
lot of the help I gave max wife was
intellectual in nature was
research-based with whether it's washing
the dishes or doing the gardening or
taking care of the baby or something
really more more intellectual or related
to politics or vegan activism you should
be in the position of saying I am doing
all I possibly can do and if that's not
enough for you we have a problem it's so
alien to me and so bizarre than a man
and apparently in British culture this
is a big thing that a man would want to
put himself in the position of saying no
I want my girlfriend or wife to be
making three times as much effort as I'm
making therefore I only pay to take her
out for dinner this is like these were
really the examples being discussed in
the newspaper the idea that a man would
only pay to take the woman out for
dinner once after she's done three
things for him like this like economy
eternal economy within the relationship
I think that's really psychologically
unhealthy and evil and counterproductive
and to me I just say it's it's very very
very alien but obviously this fits into
the British mentality the British ego
and I do think a large part of the
British ego unlike the American eco a
large part of the British ego really
seems to be based on snubbing people
you're only as good as the last person
you've snubbed is really a large part of
life in England and people there are
very very eager to insult and denigrate
each other to show who they think they
are
by contrast so okay this elaborate
allegory for me comes back to this
political question which is sort of come
up under a few different headings and
I'll come back to vegan gains in this
situation I think with activism and
humanitarian work simply put you want to
be in the position of saying I am doing
all that I possibly can now as I've just
talked about in the half hour prior to
this podcast
all you can may be very limited all you
can do to help your wife may be limited
like again maybe you have a job working
in a submarine in the US Navy so while
you're away in a submarine you're not
doing a damn thing to help her because
you're in a submarine and she's living
somewhere else she's in a city or she's
living on the land presumably all kinds
of people have problems with that in
relationship
same thing with vegan activism or
humanitarian work or what have you if
you have a job working in a submarine
working on a cruise ship very obviously
your ethical and economic commitments
are going to massively limit the amount
of a positive difference you can make
how much you can contribute how much you
contribute to the movement how much you
could you can do period
but why would you be in the position of
trying to put a percentage on it that
way of trying to limit how much you can
help why wouldn't you want to be in the
position of saying I am doing all that I
can possibly do even if that all is a
very very limited sum it's very very
tiny I mean like this year a few months
ago I was living in the school and could
Ming and one of the reasons why I wrote
that children's book I was looking for
what positive contribution can I make
and part of my positive contribution is
coming on YouTube and engaging in
critique and discussion and doing book
reviews all this stuff you guys know
about and I decided okay I can write
this children's book and try to get this
children's book Illustrated and then I
can say well living in China being in
these circumstances being a student
maybe right now this is all I can do but
I still want to do that I still want to
be all I can be and do all I can do so I
guess it's starting from that position
not of false humility but a very
pragmatic realistic assessment of how
limited your
some contribution can be that you then
move on to the pursuit of that maximum
contribution that's how I perceive the
answer that question and to me in many
ways the question is quite alien if I
regain custody of my daughter which
course gonna be joint custody obviously
the amount of time I would spend taking
care of my daughter that will again
massively reduce the scope I have to
engage in even YouTube or anything else
I'm not gonna feel bad about that I'm
gonna feel positive about doing what I
can about doing all that I can do now
this relates back to the example already
mentioned of vegan gains so what are the
sacrifices you can make what are the
strategic decisions you have to make in
terms of how you spend your time so you
are spending your time effectively in
terms of activists and politics
humanitarian work what have you well
whether or not you play video games is
the decision you can make whether or not
you own a dog is a decision you can make
and there are so many other things you
don't have power over right there's so
many other things you can't control
you may have to take care of your
grandmother you may have to take care of
your parents as they get old they need
more help taking care of themselves you
may have to take care of your kid you
may have to you know work in a submarine
you may have a job that's very demanding
of your time there may be so many things
you can't control or have limited
control over that restrict your ability
to engage in you know effective activism
a humanitarian work any aspirations to
make the world a better place you have
but then there are the things you can't
control there are the decisions you make
and this is only one of many many
reasons why I think owning a
domesticated animal owning a dog
owning a cat well I think it's not just
a bad idea in some ways I think it's
actually in a sense an immoral idea the
opportunity cost is tremendous it really
is it's a lot of time if you are walking
a dog twice a day and combing the dog
and cleaning up the dog's hair and
cleaning up the dog's poo and all this
stuff if you just walk a dog twice a day
that is a huge commitment of time seven
days a week and the the reason why with
this vegan gains is not the only one a
lot of vegans are doing this and yeah on
that human level of your personal
economy and your potential to be
effective in activism and advocacy and
changing the world and supporting
veganism many vegans start off with the
assumption that their veganism they
should be spending more time rescuing
animals keeping pets I think I tell you
it's the exact opposite feeding a dead
cow to a cat every day feeding dead
sheep to a dog every day
playing with a dog he's not gonna
achieve progress to the vegan movement
not if you have one dog and not if you
have ten it's not and you know if you
didn't have that dog if you didn't have
all that time going into taking care of
house pets whether or not their rescue
animals whether or not there are these
other excuses then your horizons for
making a difference in the movement they
change so those are I think the
strategic decisions you have to make
those are the strategic decisions that
shape what is the maximum amount you can
do so I guess we'll my second last topic
here
I've had several videos just lately
discussing the permanent vacation
lifestyle people dropping out of school
to pursue YouTube and you guys may not
have noticed but actually there's a
really peculiar example of this in the
well-known social justice warrior vegan
youtuber called a privileged vegan so a
privileged vegan is also called marine
she for awhile stopped using the name a
privileged vegan she's the name marine
and now she's back she's using the name
of privileged vegan again a privileged
vegan has only ABA she was enrolled in
an MA program in a master's program and
she actually had a video posted
explaining her decision to drop out of
her MA program and why is she dropping
out of her MA program it's to join us
here on permanent vacation on YouTube
pursuing YouTube activism or YouTube
advocacy whatever you want to say now
that is really really bizarre you know
of course it's bizarre first of all
because it's a contrast to all the other
people I've criticized who you know
we're involved in lifestyle activism and
bikinis and you know who people who have
nothing in common with a privileged
vegan politically or methodologically
and yet of course it is still
fundamentally the same thing
she is not quitting she's not dropping
in for me to have a full-time job she
does she has not mentioned having any
job at all I think you know I wish her
well I don't know if she's born rich
enough that she just doesn't need a job
she is pursuing YouTube fame even if it
is YouTube fame of an explicitly
political explicitly activist form now
yeah there are some comments in the in
the comment section here about
privileged vegan being a spoiled brat
yes so you know she and I are not
friends for the sake of veganism I would
be entirely willing to talk to her again
do a podcast with her collaborate with
her because for the sake of veganism I'd
be willing to I'd be willing to
collaborate with freely I mean I'm I'm
really trying to make something positive
happen even when I have significant
differences people but she's somebody
you know she doesn't like me and I think
in a sense I don't like her but this is
about this is about saving the planet
this is about saving the animals blah
blah blah so we should be able to put
those kinds of differences aside correct
me if I'm wrong and again there are some
differences you can't put aside I mean
you know remember I'm still like the
only guy on vegan youtube to really
confront the neo-nazis and racists
within vegan
you know well that so somebody comments
that she's only doing YouTube until the
next MMA program and so that is not what
she says if you actually watch your
video and I don't believe that's the
case at all I think it's a serious
decisions you made so look I'm putting a
caveat here there are many many reasons
to drop out of your ma program including
just that the professor is lousy that
the program is lousy you know there are
reasons like that or you can just say
well you know it's it's a bad program
it's simple enough reason to drop out or
it's it's going for Li she does not cite
anything like that though she really
does cite her decision as being because
she wants to do this YouTube thing and
she wants to build up her channel and
she talked in some technical detail how
she's trying to attract more viewers to
her channel so it does seem like she is
making in many ways the mistakes that
I've been warning against and I think
she's probably seriously deluded as to
how big the maximum size of her audience
would be
but it's a little bit extra bizarre for
me because I am someone who has never
had the opportunity to get a master's
degree let alone a PhD I have quite a
few videos talking about that there's
one that's just titled why I don't have
a PhD parts 1 & 2 and still to this day
there are professors who are fans of my
work because I went back to school at
UVic I have one bachelor's degree I'm
getting a second bachelor's degree I
still do not have a single option to get
an MA anywhere in the world a single
positive viable option so dropping out
of an MA program dropping out of a
master's degree if it's a good program
if it's a decent program that is quite
alien and jarring to me given what my
own struggle struggles in life have been
and given the deplorable state of
Canadian academia the incredibly poor
options I've had I don't know
what can we learn from example someone
like like privileged vegan YouTube this
is the real philosophical moral I want
to put on the story guys YouTube is
wonderful and powerful because it allows
us to challenge other people's opinions
I'll use one example myself I think as
well I challenged a whole bunch of
people who never really thought about
what it means to castrate a dog vegans
people who are already vegans people
aren't supported animal rights and a
whole lot of people had to sit down and
really think about it holy why do
we castrate dogs why do we castrate cats
why do we on a hormonal level modify the
behaviors of these animals so that they
will be more like toys more like pets
rather than having their well behaviors
I was really successfully able to
challenge people in a way they didn't
expect to be challenged where they
didn't want to be challenged within
veganism thanks to you that's the
positive thing about both veganism but
you know I think the negative thing
about veganism is that for people like
myself for people like privileged vegan
and me it makes it possible to live your
whole life without being challenged
um I think that you know someone like
marine someone like a privileged vegan
she is in dire need of being challenged
about many of her fundamentally ignorant
fundamentally self-righteous beliefs in
the world and that doesn't happen
through YouTube it can happen in a good
university program it can happen between
professor and student whether it's a
masters degree program or BA it can also
just have with people you know face to
face
it can't happen by going to conferences
being in some kind of Socratic dialogue
with somebody you know Maureen had a
video I used this as an example because
to me it's very smoking gun
she had a video talking about living
without soap so if you guys don't
remember I had a very comedic video
where I was really ranting about how
much I hate vegans who either don't use
soap or make up pseudoscience and
excuses and myths to make it sound like
a life without soap is superior to a
life using soap this kind of nonsense
there's a video from her totally
uncritically totally unscientifically
talking about a soap free life so this
kind of natural hygiene pseudoscience
crap about not using soap you can watch
don't watch it I mean it's garbage but
I'm just saying and you know I watch
that video and whether you're looking at
what she says about soap or what she
says about politics in Israel I see
someone whose tiny shred of fame on
YouTube is allowing them to burrow
deeper and deeper into an echo chamber
where nobody is gonna educate her nobody
is gonna challenge her where she is able
to just be ever more self-confident in
it to feel ever more unchallenged in you
know her assumptions about how the world
works and about questions of good and
evil right and wrong but if you just
think about the meaning of the word
education in terms of career I've
already talked about the fact I think
it's sad to see someone like this
destroying their career opportunities
just to come on YouTube and
this game that I'm playing right now but
it is also really very sad in terms of
Education in terms of real education in
terms of the opportunity for you to be
challenged in your beliefs and
assumption to really learn something new
to really gain a new perspective to gain
a new perspective on familiar facts and
have a jarring unexpected confrontation
with unfamiliar facts and that happens
to me that's part of my education even
though I'm in my late 30s you know I
went back to university I already knew a
lot about the history of Laos the
history of Cambodia history of China to
some extent and I go back to university
I wasn't planning to study the history
of Russia and I studied the history of
Russia Wow
I'm confronted with a new perspective
that really of course you know
intersects with overlaps with has a
dynamic connection to all those other
you know historical questions and it
challenges my assumptions I have heard
Marines perspective I've heard her own
explanation in her own perspective and
what she's doing and why she's doing it
and it is certainly a you know bizarre
and instructive and memorable example of
frankly the permanent vacation lifestyle
frankly this fundamental delusion that
YouTube is real activism that YouTube is
a real career or that theme within the
digital vegan demi-monde
is real Fame because it's not it's none
of those things none of those things are
true and valid but what it is I mean
YouTube is a way to document your own
life it is a way to make friends and you
know I do appreciate it I do appreciate
it for what it is but it's very sad to
see so many people swept up in a sort of
illusion of what they imagine it is
alright to end this video though this is
now New Year's Eve I'm recording this on
December 31st 2016 looking ahead to 2017
I've already mused on this to some
extent you know I remember a quotation
from a computer programmer
a computer programmer who did die
relatively young I forget if she died at
45 or 55 the famous quote from this
computer programmer is when you're on
your deathbed nobody looks back at their
life and thinks I wish that I spent more
time sitting in my computer alone you
know it's very funny I'll just say only
a few days ago I thought that my
resolution for 2017 was going to be to
spend less time on YouTube and to put
more of my time into language research
and my career here in China and maybe
into starting a small business here in
China you know setting up the foundation
for that looking at all those career
issues and options and then in just a
few days things changed here including
my contract for a bunch of different
reasons my perspective changed because
the facts changed the facts the
situation changed so my perspective
changed and really my perspective is now
that the role the Chinese language has
in my life is very questionable it's
very dubious the role that this job has
in my life is pretty much a dead-end job
for me learning Chinese seems to be a
complete dead end in terms of my career
which is very sad but I can weep about
that later
I can't leave oh that in a separate
video and you know YouTube and
networking with you guys the Internet is
not a dead end that actually promises
something positive for my future so I
feel like right now my resolution for
2017 is actually to work harder creating
content for YouTube but I mean the sad
fact is Chinese is a dead end this job
is a dead end my university degree is a
dead end I have no clear path in terms
of my career for getting an MA or PhD
after that university degree so when I
go back to Canada I may be working at
Starbucks we're still in that kind of
really bleak career path situation or
maybe working for the police force or
joining the army etc etc but actually I
do have every reason to put my energy my
time and energy back into YouTube
more than before and I hope I can create
a higher caliber of intellectual content
again whether that's through book
reviews or discussions of academic
papers or through collaborations with
other channels who are producing quality
content I don't know we'll see we'll see
what we'll see what's possible of course
that's why this contrast is someone like
marine a privileged vegan is so bizarre
if I had an MA program if I had a door
open to a real career or to doing
meaningful research or even higher
education none of these questions would
even be asked but I don't these are the
cards I was dealt and in some ways
they're wonderful and some ways I
advantages and in some ways I have
disadvantages but in many ways my career
situation and even you know my legal
situation so on has backed me into a
corner where you know YouTube is the
best bet of God so I hope you'll stick
with me here on patreon I hope you'll
see the next chapter that comes in my
life and in a real sense my resolution
for 2017 is to put even more effort and
energy and originality into
brainstorming how I can make more out of
this opportunity for this YouTube
channel that at the end of the day is a
crossroads for vegans to meet other
vegans for people to make connections
that can lead to real-world activism
even though I do not regard YouTube as a
form of activism in itself
[Music]